SOURCE: Cornell Bowers — INFO affiliation requirements
URL: https://infosci.cornell.edu/bachelor-science-information-science/apply
TYPE: official_department
Applying to the program.
Below, you'll find the essential information you need to prepare a strong application to our undergraduate program, including qualifications, expectations, and application steps.

Explore

View Major Requirements
The Application Process
Here’s what you need to apply (also known as “affiliate”) based on where you are in the process.
Tabs
High School Students
Cornell Students
Studying information science at Cornell.
Bowers gives students interested in majoring in Information Science at Cornell three options:
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Information Science
through the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Information Science
through the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S),
or
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Information Science, Systems, and Technology
through Cornell Engineering
How to Apply
If you’re interested in pursuing the B.S. in Information Science, you should apply directly to CALS and to the Information Science major, as CALS admits directly to majors.
Visit CALS Admissions
Application Timeline
The
first-year early decision
application deadline is November 1. Applicants are notified in mid-December of Cornell’s decision.
The
first-year regular decision
application deadline is January 2. Applicants are notified in early April of Cornell’s decision.
APPLY NOW
Becoming a Bowers major.
Applicants must meet
all
of the following requirements to be eligible to apply (also known as “affiliate”)
:
General Requirement
A grade point average of 2.50 or higher in the required courses listed below, with no single course grade below a “C” (“C-” does not count).
Computer Science Requirement
Introductory Programming: CS 1110 or CS 1112. (Also accepted: AP Computer Science A score of 5, IB Computer Science score of 6 or 7, or a score of “S” on the Computer Science CASE placement exam).
Calculus or Statistics Requirement
Calculus I (MATH 1106, MATH 1110, or MATH 1910) or Statistics (MATH 1710 or equivalent). Also accepted: AP Calculus AB or BC score of 4 or 5, IB Mathematics score of 6 or 7, or a score of “S” on the Calculus CASE placement Exam. AP Statistics is not accepted.
Information Science Requirement
Any 2 of the 5 Information Science Core Courses (all of which are required for the major):
INFO 1200 or 1260
INFO 1300
INFO 2040
INFO 2450
INFO 2950 or INFO 2951
Students may count CS 2800 + CS 2110 together in place of INFO 2950 for affiliation purposes only.
For students applying to the major after September 15, 2024, once admitted to the major, INFO 2950 or INFO 2951 must be completed.
Spring 2026 Update:
If you are attempting to affiliate with the IS major by the end of spring 2026, need one core class, and cannot take INFO 1300 or INFO 2951, then you may take INFO 1340 or INFO 1210 to substitute one core class for affiliation purposes only. Minimum grade criteria still apply. INFO 1210, if admitted to the IS major, can count as an IS major elective or an Info Ethics, Law, and Policy concentration course (category A). INFO 1340 does not fulfill any IS major requirements. All 5 core classes are still required for the major if one of the previously mentioned courses is used for affiliation.
Application Timeline
Cornell CALS students can
apply
(also known as "affiliate with") the Information Science major after completing our affiliation requirements.
Students in their senior year of study intending to change majors to IS or add IS as a second major must submit a course plan to demonstrate they can complete all degree requirements by their current expected graduation date.
Pro-tip
: You can also apply while you are enrolled in the last courses you need to affiliate. Your application will be reviewed after that semester’s final grades are posted.
Application Processing Schedule
Submit Jan 1 - Jan 31 → Decision by March 1
Submit Feb 1- May 31 → Decision by July 1
Submit Jun 1- Sept 14 → Decision by October 15
Submit Sep 15 - Dec 31 → Decision by mid-January

Apply now
Explore your degree options.
You can pursue an information science degree through the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) and the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). Additionally, a degree in Information Science, Systems, and Technology is offered through Cornell Engineering (EN).
This program is offered through the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
Explore your degree options.
CALS
A&S
EN
Degree Awarded
Bachelor of Science in Information Science
Bachelor of Arts in Information Science
Bachelor of Science in Information Science, Systems, and Technology
Overview
Best for students who wish to enrich their degree with interdisciplinary sciences.
Best for students who wish to enrich their liberal arts study.
Best for students who wish to pursue a degree in information systems engineering.
Degree Similarities
As with A&S, you’re required to complete five core courses, three electives, and at least one concentration.
As with CALS, you’re required to complete five core courses, three electives, and at least one concentration.
Similar to A&S and CALS, this degree examines information systems in various contexts.
Degree Differences
Course requirements span written and oral communication, physical and life sciences, and social sciences and humanities. For this program, you matriculate to Cornell as an Information Science major.
Course requirements include a foreign language, and distribution areas across A&S.
View IS B.A. Program
Course requirements span EN disciplines and involve more technical requirements beyond those required for A&S and CALS.
VIEW ISST B.S. PROGRAM
View Details
Connect + Get Started
VIEW PROGRAM OVERVIEW
EXPLORE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS
CONNECT WITH A BOWERS ADVISOR