SOURCE: Cornell A&S — INFO career outcomes
URL: https://as.cornell.edu/major_minor_gradfield/information-science
TYPE: official_outcomes
Information Science

As an information science major, you’ll have a home in two colleges: Arts and Sciences (A&S) and the
Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science
.
The Information Science major is ideal for A&S students who wish to explore the human-centered aspects of computing and information, as well as technology’s real-world impact, adoption, and integration into everyday life. This includes the study of ethics, law, and policy, particularly related to artificial intelligence (AI), human-AI interaction and human-robot interaction, networks and markets, social computing, user experience and design, and related topics.

Sample classes

INFO 1170: Artificial Intelligence in Organizations
INFO 1200: Choices and Consequences in Computing
INFO 3370: Studying Social Inequality Using Data Science
INFO 4250: Surveillance and Privacy
INFO 4320: Introduction to Rapid Prototyping and Physical Computing
INFO 4340: App Design and Prototyping
INFO 4390: Practical Principles for Designing Fair Algorithms
INFO 4470: Human-AI Interaction Design

Outcomes

All information below is A&S Class of 2025 information science majors’ undergraduate data at six months post-graduation. Explore these outcomes in greater detail on the
Cornell Outcomes Dashboard
or by emailing
as_careers@cornell.edu
.
What can you do with a degree in Information Science?
At the time the data were reported, 97% of the A&S Class of 2025 graduating with an information science major were employed full-time (72%), in graduate school (19%), or pursuing other endeavors, such as entrepreneurship (6%).
Graduate school:
In 2025, 19% of A&S information science majors elected to continue their studies after graduation. They pursued various advanced degrees, with 51% focusing on a Masters of Professional Studies, 20% on a Masters of Engineering, 18% on a Masters of Science, 4% on a Ph.D., and another 4% on a J.D. Their graduate field interests range from information science (36%) to computer science (15%) and applied statistics (7%), among other fields.
The top graduate school destination for Class of 2025 A&S information science majors was Cornell University. Beyond Cornell, these students also went to:
Columbia University in the City of New York
Brown University
Carnegie Mellon University
Duke University
Emory University
University of Florida
Georgia Institute of Technology
Georgetown University
Harvard University
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
The New School
New York University
Stanford University
University of California-Berkeley
University of Maryland-College Park
University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
University of Virginia
University of Hong Kong
Employment:
While 19% of their classmates continued their studies, 72% of information science graduates in A&S secured full-time employment. Of these, 32% entered the technology sector, 31% entered financial services (typically in tech-related roles), and 19% entered management consulting.
Where 2025 Information Science Graduates Work
The top ten employers for these students in the Class of 2025 were:
Epic Systems
Capital One
Microsoft
Deloitte
IBM
PwC
American Express
Verizon
Ankura
Amazon

major

minor

graduate

Learn more

Department website

IS major

IS minor

IS graduate programs

Associated interests

Artificial Intelligence and Augmented Reality

Game design

Statistics and data science

Related disciplines

Sciences and Mathematics

Social Sciences

Full list of majors and minors